component deep type in this video
we're
going to take a look at vue.js components
detail components in their own state
and props and how to update components
alright so I have my applet view file
and I'm importing a component called
glitch text so I just quickly want to
show up how that looks because it's a
texts reveal effect that frequently gets
used in spy movies that I thought was
very impressive for the first time
probably when I was a child so pay
attention to its Berlin Germany 1989
so what you can see is that the text
gets revealed character by character but
there is something else going on there
are these weird characters that aren't
really usually used in sentences or all
these weird special characters that kind
of are at the end of what gets revealed
and then disappear so I'm gonna show you
in just a moment how we did that
otherwise this component is just as you
remember it from the last video it says
imported tanks from components glitched
X and then it specifies that we want to
use that component and data object we
have a reveal string and that is
currently Berlin Germany here and then
we have a method called change text and
this will override our reveal string to
another city in another country and
another year
now looking at the glitch text component
we can see that with passing the text
hood and we're passing the speed so
let's check that component up you can
see that the template is very very short
it's only displaced the text that is
passed to it almost because you can see
context it's not the problem
so how that works just very briefly is
that we have that object with current
text which starts as an empty string and
then we have a default speed and we have
something called a glitch range so this
is the weird characters you see when the
text just gets revealed and then we have
our final text
so what happens a bit for the dampness
we have a method called display text and
this method takes care of revealing the
letters one by one and you can see that
it mostly consists of the settimeout
method and it has the speed at the end
so for example with the default speed
every 300 milliseconds it would add
another character
so the method calls discharge picks a
random character from
this string up here and displays it at
the end of the string
so now we know how the component works
let's get back to our apt with you and
actually demo the feature so let's
change the text and let's see what
happens
as expected it changes the text and that
is due to that we watched for changes so
the watch object in a component in views
this o view please pay attention to what
happens with this variable that I get so
in this case we're watching for the text
and then we define the function and then
you can call this anything so a lot of
people call this Val or value because it
represents the new value that is
supposed to be received and if you have
two arguments you can also have old
value and new audio so you can compare
the two before deciding if you actually
need to update your component or not so
what I chose to do was to reset the
context and to start the function that
reveals the text from scratch if you
start from an empty string again
you can have many components at once and
let's see what happens if we have this
component more times and also that we
change the speed prop
so this now means that this changes or
this adds another character to the
reveal every hundred milliseconds every
200 milliseconds and every three
milliseconds
so right now you can see we have the
component three times and let's change
the hex
so as you can see they reveal at
different paces and I would say the
bottom one feels a bit slow if you
reveal tech side that to the users of
your app they might get very very
annoyed and hit the and very very
quickly once the quicker speeds I would
say can add to the field for example if
you're doing a game or heavenly game you
find that so now we've learned how to
use components in their props and how to
specifically listen for changes and how
to run our own methods in the context of
watching for these changes
another thing that's probably noteworthy
is to point out that your child
component components each keep their own
state so if they have data function that
returns a data object they are
independent from the other components
that have the same name
because even though they all get the
same problem they can act on that
however they choose so if for example
there was a randomized function in there
or something would happen in your
component that has network access so you
call something from an API and the
difference in time causes different
things to appear your components to be
on state so let's say you have a minute
of delay in the month in the next video
we're going to have a look at basic
template interpolation